# 3 Advanced Space Defence
For this assignment we are going to continue with the space defence game, adding the finishing touches to turn Space Defence into a real game. Make sure to hand in Space Defence 1 before continuing with the new assignment.

To expand the game we increase the playing area beyond the screen, we add more enemies, another weapon and a new mechanic, where the player can score by shipping goods between 2 planets.

### Functionality:
Implement the following functionality:

Add a start and pauze screen:
1. Add a start screen to the game from where the player can at least start or quit the game.
2. Add a pause screen from where the player can at least continue or quit the game. The game should still be visible in the background, but.  (1p)

Expand the level:
1. Create a camera class that follows the player as it moves around the level and expand the play area. (2 p)

More enemies:
1. Add a new asteroid enemy that does not move, and destrois both the player and enemies on touch.
2. Spawn more enemies over time, slowly ramping up the difficulty.

Animations:
1. Implement a class that can play an animation using a sprite sheet.
2. It should at least be possible to adjust the speed of the animation and wether or not it loops.
3. Whenever a player or an alien dies, play an explosion animation

Game Goal:
1. Add at least 2 planetes to the level. When the player goes to one planet, they pick up cargo. At the other planet they can drop it off.
2. Whenever the player drops off cargo they score points. The score should always be visible on screen.
3. There should always be some indication of wether or not the player is carrying any cargo.

New Weapon:
1. Extract a weapon class for the two current weapons that can be added to the ship as a component to the ship.
2. Add a third weapon, the player can pick up.
3. Add some unique functionality to the weapon. You can deside what it does. It can for example be an explosion, or a lightning weapon that also hits nearby targets


The grade for the assignment is equal to the total points (max 11 including bonus)
