# Playtesting

Every team member should test their game with at least 3 people, of which at least 1 outside the class. So if you have a group of 5, you will need 15 playtesters. Afterwards combine your results in 1 report.

Make sure to ask primarily closed questions, but also open questions. Closed questions allow you to make easy comparisons, while open questions can result in answers to questions you had not even thought of. Your questionnaire should contain about 8 to 10 questions.

## Common goals of playtesting are:
- Is your game fun.
- Is the introduction clear enough.
- Do people not use certain features/mechanics?
- Do people do things you did not expect?
- Do people get stuck on things?
- Are there frustrating parts? (Quit moments)
- Are there parts that people really enjoy?
- Do players understand the story of your game?
- Are there any bugs/exploits?


## Define your methodology:

Make a script, what do you tell the people who will play your game, what will you not tell them. Try to stick to the script as much as possible.

Make a questionnaire beforehand. Think about what you want to ask. 

Decide when you will interfere. How long will you let the player be stuck before you nudge them in the right direction. It is useful to find out how far the player can go without hints, but at some point you do want them to move on.

## Before playtesting:
- Introduce yourself
- Make some small talk to try to loearn to know the tester
- Try to avoid talking about your game until you start testing.
- Follow your script to explain the tester what you expect them to do.

## During the playtesting:
- Keep notes on what the player is doing.
- You can ask them to think out loud, this can give you a lot of information.

## Afterwards:
- Let them fill in the questionnaire
- Ask them to tell you what they thought
- Feel free to ask any other questions you might have, if the player did something unexpected this is the moment to ask them about it.
- Don't forget to thank them for playing

## Finally:
### Aggregate the data you received in max 2 pages:
- For numeric data it can help to calculate the average value, or create a plot.
- Make an overview of your observations.
- Make an overview of responses to open questions.

### Try to formulate an answer for your goals.
- Work this out in a plan for how to further develop the game in max 2 pages.

Hand in the test plan, the data you gathered and the plan to further develop your game as a group.
