# Optimization

Optimize the code in [8. Optimization](https://github.com/Samonum/GameDevSamples/tree/main/8.%20Optimization) and/or your own game.

The goal is to increase the performance of your game.

If you decide to optimize your own code, make a scene that lags your game, and try to add more units to it as performance improves.

If you struggle to make any signifficant improvements in your game, try the sample code. Report any improvements you made to either.


## How to optimize your game:

Optimization is an iterative process. Optimization should always be done in release mode.

Before you make any changes, run the profiler and note down what part of the simulation uses the most processor time.

Optimize the part that takes the most processor power.

Test again to make sure your changes actually improved thing.

Continue until your game can support as many entities (ships) as possible.

## Optimization report

Make a report of your optimization efforts in the form of an excell sheet. On each line list at least:
- The number of entities (ships)
- FPS
- The percentage of processor time used by the most impactful code 
- What improvements you have made
- The new FPS
- The new percentage of processor time
- Any side notes including:
  - If you reverted the changes
  - Any impact it might have on functionality
  - If your change negatively impacts maintainability of your code


Finally note down any performance improvements you already made beforehand to your game for bonus points.


Notes:
Make sure you test for the same time span before and after, this way your profiler results are comparable.

The actual number of ships your game can support will depend on your hardware, but all improvements will be compared on my computer


## Grading
The below grading is for optimizations in Space Defence. Optimizations in your own code count towards the Improvements points, and extra points may be awarded based on performance gain and complexity.

### Improvements (Max 5):
- +1 for every reasonable improvement up to 5

### Methodology (Max 1):
- +0.5 for reasonable methodology
- +1 for good methodology

### Performance (Max 4)*:
- 10x +1
- 15x +1.5
- 20x +2
- 25x +2.5
- 30x +3
- 35x +3.5
- 40x +4

*Measured in the increase in ships the game can handle at 50+ FPS. Exact results will varry based on hardware, performannce on my laptop is leading.
