# Playtesting

Every team member should test their game with at least 3 people, of which at least 1 outside the class. So for a team of 5 people there should be at least 15 testers total. Afterwards combine your results in 1 report.

Make sure to ask primarily closed questions, but also open questions. Closed questions allow you to make easy comparisons, while open questions can result in answers to questions you had not even thought of. Your questionnaire should contain about 10 to 15 questions.

### Common goals of playtesting are
- Is your game fun.
- Is the introduction clear enough.
- Do people not use certain features/mechanics?
- Do people do things you did not expect?
- Do people get stuck on things?
- Are there frustrating parts? (Quit moments)
- Are there parts that people really enjoy?
- Do players understand the story of your game?
- Are there any bugs/exploits?

### Define your methodology

Make a script, what do you tell the people who will play your game, what will you not tell them. Here less is more. Usually the less biased a player is, the more useful their feedback. Try to stick to the script as much as possible. 

Make a questionnaire beforehand. Think about what you want to ask. 

Decide when you will interfere. How long will you let the player be stuck before you nudge them in the right direction. It is useful to find out how far the player can go without hints, but at some point you do want them to move on.

## The playtesting
Try to stick to your methodology during the playtest. This way your data is less biased, making it easier to draw good conclusions.

### Before playtesting
- Introduce yourself.
- Make some small talk to try to learn to know the tester and put them at ease.
- Try to avoid talking about your game until you start testing.
- Follow your script to explain the tester what you expect them to do.

### During playtesting
- Keep notes on what the player is doing.
- You can ask them to think out loud, this can give you a lot of information.
- Try to keep yourself from interfering. People might not do what you expect them to do, this is good data.

### After playtesting
- Let them fill in the questionnaire.
- Ask them to tell you what they thought.
- Feel free to ask any other questions you might have, if the player did something unexpected this is the moment to ask them about it.
- Don't forget to thank them for playing.


## Report
Make a report of your playtest session, containing the following information:

### Front page (1 page)
A front page containing the names and student numbers of all team memebers.

### A short description of your game (Max 0.5 page)
Give a description of your game in a few sentences. Also include what stage of development your game is in and what your goal for the playtest is. 

### Your design (1 page)
Add a 1 page design of your game in its current stage. Make sure this gives a good overview of the full game.

### Your methodology (0.5 to 1 page)
Describe the methodology of your playtest. Give a short version of the script you use to introduce people to the game and how you want to answer your core questions. Keep in mind that observations can be even more valuable than the questionnaire.

Add your full script and questionnaire as appendices.

### Aggregate the data (1.5 to 3 pages)
Summarize your data 
- Make an overview of your observations. Try to avoid interpretting them in this chapter.
- For numeric data it can help to calculate the average value, or create a plot.
- Make an overview of responses to open questions.

Add your raw data, including any observation notes, as an appendix.

### Look back at the previous playtest (0.5 to 1 page)
Look back to your previous playtest, do you see any improvements on the points you got feedback on last time?

### Formulate an answer for your goals (1 to 2 pages)
Try to interpret your data, make sure to reference the relevant datapoints throughout.
- Did you manage to answer the questions you had?
- What were the most important finds of your playtest? 

### Make a development plan (1.5 to 3 pages)
Make a plan to further develop your game. Make a distinction between things you were already planning on doing and chages you make based on the player feedback. Before handing in the final report, mark all improvements you have already implemented.

### Your updated design (1 page)
Add an updated 1 page design, containing all the newly planned features.

### Reflection (Max 0.5 page)
Add a short reflection on the playtest. How did it go? What is the state of the game?
