
# Optimization

Optimize the code in 8. Optimization.

The goal is to increase the performance of your game, while keeping functionality **exactly** the same.

Look at the samples and slides for ideas on how to improve performance. 

### How to optimize your game

Optimization is an iterative process. Optimization should always be done in release mode.

- If your game runs smoothly, increase the number of ships in the ShipSpawner class until you hit less than ~10 FPS. 
- Before you make any changes, run the profiler and note down what part of the simulation uses the most processor time.
- Optimize the part that takes the most processor power.
- Test again to make sure your changes actually improved thing.
- Continue until your game can support as many entities (ships) as possible.

### Optimization report

Make a report of your optimization efforts in the form of an excell sheet. On each line list at least:

- The number of ships
- The worst FPS during your testing
- The percentage of processor time used by the most impactful code
- What improvements you have made
- The new FPS
- The new percentage of processor time
- The effect this has on your game's maintainability (in 1 or 2 sentences)
- If this might affect functionality in some circumstances (e.g. if you use a form of object pooling your game might act up when you surpass the pool size)

Notes: Make sure you test for the same time span before and after, this way your profiler results are comparable.


### Grading

**To get a grade it is required that your game is functionally equivalent to the original code, including things like: the number of particles, ship movement, the colours of the ships. Compare your version to the original throughout to make sure you don't accidentally change things.**

The actual number of ships your game can support will depend on your hardware, but all improvements will be compared on my computer, with no other programs running and plugged inthe power supply.

Improvements (Max 5):

    +1 for every reasonable improvement up to 5
    For full credits it is required that the improvements are accompanied by all the above information, and each improvement should have a significant impact on performance.

Methodology (Max 1):

    +0.5 for reasonable methodology
    +1 for good methodology

Performance (Max 4)*:

    10x +1
    15x +1.5
    20x +2
    25x +2.5
    30x +3
    35x +3.5
    40x +4

*Measured in the increase in ships the game can handle at 30+ FPS. Exact results will varry based on hardware, performannce on my laptop is leading. To make a good prediction look at how many ships your computer can handle before any changes and use that as your baseline.
